# Algorithms

Informally, an algorithm is any well-defined computational procedure that takes
some value, or set of values, as input and produces some value, or set of values, as
output. An algorithm is thus a sequence of computational steps that transform the
input into the output.

We can also view an algorithm as a tool for solving a well-specified computational problem. The statement of the problem specifies in general terms the desired input/output relationship. The algorithm describes a specific computational procedure for achieving that input/output relationship

An algorithm is said to be correct if, for every input instance, it halts with the
correct output. We say that a correct algorithm solves the given computational
problem. 

A data structure is a way to store
and organize data in order to facilitate access and modifications. No single data
structure works well for all purposes, and so it is important to know the strengths
and limitations of several of them.

## 1.1-1

> Give a real-world example that requires sorting or a real-world example that requires computing a convex hull.

- Sorting: browse the price of the hotels with ascending prices on an trip App.
- Convex hull: computing the diameter of set of points.

Note: The convex hull may be defined either as the intersection of all convex sets containing a given subset of a Euclidean space, or equivalently as the set of all convex combinations of points in the subset. For a bounded subset of the plane, the convex hull may be visualized as the shape enclosed by a rubber band stretched around the subset.

## 1.1-2

> Other than speed, what other measures of efficiency might one use in a real-world setting?

Memory efficiency, coding efficiency and cost.

## 1.1-3

> Select a data structure that you have seen previously, and discuss its strengths and limitations.

Linked-list:

- Strengths: insertion and deletion.
- Limitations: random access.

Comparison of list data structures

|  | Linked list |
| Indexing | Θ(n) |
| Insert/delete at beginning | Θ(1) |
| Insert/delete at end | Θ(1) when last element is known; Θ(n) when last element is unknown |
| Insert/delete in middle | search time + Θ(1) |
| Wasted space (average) | Θ(n) |
## 1.1-4

> How are the shortest-path and traveling-salesman problems given above similar? How are they different?

- Similar: finding path with shortest distance.
- Different: traveling-salesman has more constrains.

## 1.1-5

> Come up with a real-world problem in which only the best solution will do. Then come up with one in which a solution that is "approximately" the best is good enough.

- Best: find the GCD of two positive integer numbers.
- Approximately: find the solution of differential equations.
